About five minutes ago and it executed three times.
So let's enable OSP from Robert T and see how the output changes.
So in order to show IP interface brief will allow me to see the interfaces configured on this rather.
As you can see here 10 1 2 2 as being configured on 0 1 slash 0 and 10 1 3 1 has been configured on
0 1 slash 1.
Let's configure a loop back on this rather interface loop back to 0 IP address
and it's configured as portable to topping the command Rata 0 SPF 2 will enable 0 SPF on this rata with
process IGT.
And in this case let's enable 0 SPF using this format.
So I've essentially said just enable 0 SPF on all interfaces and let's put those interfaces in area
0.
As you can see here a neighbour relationship or adjacency is being formed neighbour 10 1 5 1 on Serial
1 slash 0 has gone from the loading state to the full state the full state means that the rod is exchanging
links state updates with one another.
This can get confusing neighbour 10 1 5 1 is not directly connected to us IP address 10 1 5 1 is not
directly connected to write it 2 however that IP address is the Rada I.D. of Rada 1 and Rada 2 has formed
the neighbour relationship with a Rada 1 and thus the Rada I.D. Barada 1 is shown in the output not
the IP address of Serial 1 select 0 by the same token on Rado 1 notice a neighbour relationship has
been formed with quadruple 2 on Serial 1 Section Zero.
Notice that the process idea on Rada 1 is 1 Where's the process idea on Robert T it's t process ideas
are local to the is and do not have to be the same so I can top that come on show IP 0 SPF interface
and you can see that SPF is enabled in the loop back interface 0 1 so one interface serial one slash
0 interface which are the three interfaces configured on Rod a T.
Going back to RADA 1 and topping the command show IPO SPF will allow me to see that the SPF algorithm
has now been executed five times because new rods have been added to the topology show IP 0 SPF neighbor
will allow me to see my OSB of neighbors a one at the moment only has a neighbor relationship with Rod
to notice the relationship is full.
Notice the dash the dash means that no election has taken place on this interface and the reason why
is that it's a point to point link on a fast ethernet network you would see various states share like
D.R. for designated Rada BTR for backup designated Rada and D or rather in other words the neighbor
is neither ADR or a BTR it's important to realize this come on show IPO SPF neighbor is giving me information
about my neighbor rather not about me.
In other words neighbor with IP address quadruple 2 is connected to our local serial 1 slash 0 interface
and the neighbors IP address on that interface is 10 1 2 2 en route at 2 show IP SPF neighbor will allow
me to see similar information for router 1 Notice right one's neighbor ideas 10 1 5 1 now as per base
practice we should be using a loop back for the right I.D. rather than a physical interface so on Rado
1 let's create a loop like interface
and topic am on do show IP 0 SPF interface and you'll notice that the Rada ideas remain the same.
You'll also notice that the loop back interface is not in the list of interfaces and the reason for
that is that we only enabled OSP upon specific interfaces so topping the command do show run pipe section
Oh SPF will allow me to see the configuration of SPF and the running configuration.
And as you can see here oh SPF has not been enabled on the looped back interface.
So let's type Rada or SPF 1 network and let's specify a loop back address now topping the command do
show IP SPF interface shows me that my Rada ideas stole 10 1 5 1 Let's type this game on clear IP 0
yet process and say yes to care will always be processes as you can see the neighbour relationship went
down and then re-established show IP 0 SPF interface will show me that the Rada ideas stole 10 1 5 1
not could remove a wispy if and re enable it.
That's a bit of a blunt instrument to change the right idea so I'm going to go quantity Rada 0 SPF 1
Rada I.D. and then specify the Rada ideas quadruple 1 and notice what the Rada says either reload or
use the clear IP SPF process command for this to take effect so let's type clear IP 0 SPF process say
yes to kill all processes and see what happens once again in a relationship went down and re-established
topping it come on show IP SPF interface shows me that the Rada I.D. is now set to quadruple 1 en route
it to show IPO SPF neighbor.
Notice the neighbor relationship has changed to use the loop back address of quadruple 1 so let's enable
0 Escape from Route 3 to ensure full connectivity between all subnets
show IP interface brief will allow me to see the interfaces configured on this rather.